feat: native support for Websockets (#12973)
sveltejs/kit: documentation/docs/30-advanced/15-websockets.md

---
title: WebSockets
---

## The `socket` object

Websockets are a way to open a bi-directional communication channel between the client and the server.

SvelteKit accepts a `socket` object in `+server.js` files that you can use to handle websocket connections to different routes in your app.

The shape of this socket object directly corresponds to the [Hooks](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/hooks) type in `crossws` as this is the package being used to handle cross-platform websocket connections.

```js

> export const socket = {

Reviewer: Have you considered exposing `defineWebSocket` for easier types? ([example](https://github.com/unjs/h3/blob/main/src/utils/ws.ts#L10))

Reviewer 2: I did, but SvelteKit has existing methods of typing the exports that require no direct user action for the intellisense to populate, and I would like to get this export working the same way.

Reviewer: Ah i see then as you see it fit 👍🏼

	upgrade(req) {
        // ...
	},

	open(peer) {
        // ...
	},

	message(peer, message) {
        // ...
	},

	close(peer, event) {
		// ...
	},

	error(peer, error) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

### Upgrade

The `upgrade` hook is called when a websocket connection is established, and can be used to accept or reject the websocket connection.

Additionally, SvelteKit provides `accept` and `reject` helper functions to easily accept or reject connections.

```js
import { reject, accept } from "@sveltejs/kit";

export const socket = {
	upgrade(req) {
		 // Accept the websocket connection
		return accept();

        // Reject the websocket connection

>         reject(401, 'unauthorized');

Reviewer: For sake of readability, do you consider documenting with explicit `throw`? (it has same effect anyway)

```suggestion
        throw reject(401, 'unauthorized');
```

Reviewer 2: So I actually have it modeled this way as it better reflects the existing flow for the error function in SvelteKit, but if we were able to align on the throw types and get all package working well we could ditch the reject completely and just use the existing error function

Reviewer 2: is there a common interface the types share that we can align on or should I just add a helper function to accept either type from either package?

Reviewer: Not yet but i'm already considering `extends { readonly response: Response }` (`responser` getter on `error` object). we need to update `upgrade` method in `hooks.ts`

Reviewer 2: So that would mean that you could throw a response or an error with a response method on it?

Reviewer: Yes with a response getter 👍🏼

Reviewer 2: That may be the easiest method, as we could very simply add a resaponse gettor to the HttpError implementation

Reviewer 2: I'll set things up for the response getter now

Reviewer 2: @pi0 Here is a PR with a possible solution, would love to get your eyes on it

https://github.com/unjs/crossws/pull/113

>         // Reject the WebSocket connection with a standard SvelteKit error

Reviewer 3: this line and the next have spaces that should be tabs

Reviewer 2: fixed

### Open

The `open` hook is called when a WebSocket connection is opened. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) WebSocket object as a parameter.

```js
export const socket = {
	open(peer) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

### Message

The `message` hook is called when a message is received from the client. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) WebSocket object and the [message](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/message) as parameters.

```js
export const socket = {
	message(peer, message) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

### Close

The `close` hook is called when a WebSocket connection is closed. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) WebSocket object and the close event as parameters.

```js
export const socket = {
	close(peer, event) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

### Error

The `error` hook is called when a WebSocket connection error occurs. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) WebSocket object and the error as parameters.

```js
export const socket = {
	error(peer, error) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

## Connecting from the client

To connect to a WebSocket endpoint in SvelteKit, you can use the native `WebSocket` class in the browser.

> The connection URL is the path to the WebSocket endpoint, which is the same as the path the `+server.js` file would respond to for other HTTP requests.
> 

Reviewer 3: I think we can handle with an inline comment as suggested below
```suggestion
```

```js

> const socket = new WebSocket(`/ws`);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// To connect to src/routes/ws/+server.js
const socket = new WebSocket(`/ws`);
```

```

> The WebSocket API is documented in [more detail here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket/WebSocket).

Reviewer 3: I always prefer to avoid links that say "here" :laughing: 
```suggestion
See [the WebSocket documentation on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket/WebSocket) for more details.
```

## Compatibility

> SvelteKit uses `crossws` to handle websocket connections. This package has a well documented [compatibility table](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#compatibility) for the peer object in different runtime environments, Please refer to their documentation for more information.

Reviewer: we use `unjs/[name]` usually for cross ref if you like also

```suggestion
SvelteKit uses [`unjs/crossws`](https://crossws.unjs.io) to handle websocket connections. This package has a well-documented [compatibility table](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#compatibility) for the peer object in different runtime environments, Please refer to their documentation for more information.
```

> SvelteKit uses [`unjs/crossws`](https://crossws.unjs.io) to handle WebSocket connections. This package has a well-documented [compatibility table](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#compatibility) for the peer object in different runtime environments, Please refer to their documentation for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SvelteKit uses [`unjs/crossws`](https://crossws.unjs.io) to handle WebSocket connections. Please refer to their [compatibility table](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#compatibility) for the peer object in different runtime environments.
```

## Adapter Integrations

> For those interested in integrating WebSocket support into their own SvelteKitadapters, please refer to the crossws [adapter integration guides here](https://crossws.unjs.io/adapters) for more information.

Reviewer 3: let's move this sentence to https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/writing-adapters

Reviewer 2: Done

---
title: WebSockets
---

## The `socket` object

[WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API) provide a way to open a bidirectional communication channel between the client and server.

> SvelteKit accepts a `socket` object in `+server.js` files that you can use to handle WebSocket connections to different routes in your app.

Reviewer 4: Following the wording from the `actions` docs https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/form-actions
```suggestion
A `+server.js` file can export a `socket` object to handle WebSocket connections.
```

```js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	message(peer, message) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

### Close

The `close` hook is called when a WebSocket connection is closed. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) WebSocket object and the close event as parameters.

```js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	close(peer, event) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

### Error

The `error` hook is called when a WebSocket connection error occurs. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) WebSocket object and the error as parameters.

```js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	error(peer, error) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

## Connecting from the client

To connect to a WebSocket endpoint in SvelteKit, you can use the native `WebSocket` class in the browser.

```js
// To connect to src/routes/ws/+server.js
const socket = new WebSocket(`/ws`);
```

See [the WebSocket documentation on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket/WebSocket) for more details.

## Compatibility

> SvelteKit uses [`unjs/crossws`](https://crossws.unjs.io) to handle WebSocket connections. Please refer to their [compatibility table](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#compatibility) for the peer object in different runtime environments.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
SvelteKit uses [`unjs/crossws`](https://crossws.unjs.io) to handle WebSocket connections. Please refer to their [compatibility table](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#compatibility) for the `Peer` object in different runtime environments.
```

```js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	close(peer, event) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

### error

The `error` hook is called when a WebSocket connection error occurs. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) object, to allow interacting with connected clients, and the error as parameters.

```js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	error(peer, error) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

## Connecting from the client

To connect to a WebSocket endpoint, you can use the [`WebSocket`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket/WebSocket) constructor in the browser.

```svelte
<script>
	import { onMount } from 'svelte';

	onMount(() => {
		// To connect to src/routes/ws/+server.js
		const socket = new WebSocket(`/ws`);

		socket.addEventListener("open", (event) => {
			socket.send("Hello Server!");
		});

		// ...
	});
</script>
```

See [the WebSocket documentation on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket) for more details.

## Compatibility

> SvelteKit uses [`crossws`](https://crossws.unjs.io) to handle cross-platform WebSocket connections. Please refer to their [compatibility table](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#compatibility) for the `peer` object in different runtime environments.

Reviewer 2: Thanks @dummdidumm!

I was trying to do that last night but I think I went about it all wrong.

> SvelteKit uses [`crossws`](https://crossws.unjs.io) to handle cross-platform WebSocket connections. Please refer to their [compatibility table](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#compatibility) for the `peer` object in different runtime environments.

Reviewer 4: Added `websockets` to the `supports` object.

---
title: WebSockets
---

## The `socket` object

[WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API) provide a way to open a bidirectional communication channel between a client and a server.

A `+server.js` file can export a `socket` object to handle WebSocket connections.

> In the `socket` object, you can define [hooks](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/hooks) to handle the different stages of the WebSocket lifecycle.

Reviewer 3: Are all methods optional? If so, I think that'd be good to mention here

Reviewer 5: I think they are, but I will validate

Reviewer 2: Yes they appear to be, the type is specified as a partial.

> In the `socket` object, you can define [hooks](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/hooks) to handle the different stages of the WebSocket lifecycle.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the `socket` object, you can define [hooks](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/hooks) to handle the different stages of the WebSocket lifecycle. All hooks are optional.
```

> A `+server.js` file can export a `socket` object to handle WebSocket connections.
> 
> In the `socket` object, you can define [hooks](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/hooks) to handle the different stages of the WebSocket lifecycle. All hooks are optional.

Reviewer 6: I think we should explicitly call out that we're using crossws and articulate why:

```suggestion
A `+server.js` file can export a `socket` object to handle WebSocket connections. It uses [crossws](https://crossws.unjs.io/) to provide a consistent interface across different platforms. You can define [hooks](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/hooks), all optional, to handle the different stages of the WebSocket lifecycle.
```

```js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	upgrade(req) {
        // ...
	},

	open(peer) {
        // ...
	},

	message(peer, message) {
        // ...
	},

	close(peer, event) {
		// ...
	},

	error(peer, error) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

> ### Upgrade

Reviewer 6: We should match the casing of the actual hook, to eliminate any ambiguity

```suggestion
### upgrade
```

The `upgrade` hook is called before a WebSocket connection is established. It receives the [request](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Request) object as a parameter.

> You can use the [`error`](@sveltejs-kit#error) function imported from `@sveltejs/kit` to easily reject connections. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the [`error`](@sveltejs-kit#error) function imported from `@sveltejs/kit` to easily reject connections. Requests will be auto-accepted if the `upgrade` hook is not defined or does not `error`.
```

```js
import { error } from "@sveltejs/kit";

/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	upgrade(request) {
		if (request.headers.get('origin') !== 'allowed_origin') {
			// Reject the WebSocket connection by throwing an error
			error(403, 'Forbidden');
		}
	}
};
```

> ### Open

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### open
```

The `open` hook is called when a WebSocket connection is opened. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) object, to allow interacting with connected clients, as a parameter.

```js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	open(peer) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

> ### Message

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### message
```

The `message` hook is called when a message is received from the client. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) object, to allow interacting with connected clients, and the [message](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/message) object, containing data from the client, as parameters.

```js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	message(peer, message) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

> ### Close

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### close
```

The `close` hook is called when a WebSocket connection is closed. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) object, to allow interacting with connected clients, and the close event object, containing the [WebSocket connection close code](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CloseEvent/code#value) and reason, as parameters.

```js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	close(peer, event) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

> ### Error

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### error
```

The `error` hook is called when a WebSocket connection error occurs. It receives the [peer](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) object, to allow interacting with connected clients, and the error as parameters.

```js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	error(peer, error) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

## Connecting from the client

To connect to a WebSocket endpoint, you can use the [`WebSocket`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket/WebSocket) constructor in the browser.

```svelte
<script>
	import { onMount } from 'svelte';

	onMount(() => {
		// To connect to src/routes/ws/+server.js
		const socket = new WebSocket(`/ws`);

		socket.addEventListener("open", (event) => {
			socket.send("Hello Server!");
		});

		// ...
	});
</script>
```

See [the WebSocket documentation on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket) for more details.

## Compatibility

> SvelteKit uses [`unjs/crossws`](https://crossws.unjs.io) to handle cross-platform WebSocket connections. Please refer to their [compatibility table](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#compatibility) for the `peer` object in different runtime environments.

Reviewer 6: The project refers to itself as `crossws` rather than `unjs/crossws` and I think it probably makes sense that we do too

```suggestion
SvelteKit uses [`crossws`](https://crossws.unjs.io) to handle cross-platform WebSocket connections. Please refer to their [compatibility table](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#compatibility) for the `peer` object in different runtime environments.
```

## Hooks

A `+server.js` file can export a `socket` object with [hooks](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/hooks), all optional, to handle the different stages of the WebSocket lifecycle.

```js
/** @type {import('./$types').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	upgrade(event) {
		// ...
	},
	open(peer) {
		// ...
	},
	message(peer, message) {
		// ...
	},
	close(peer, details) {
		// ...
	},
	error(peer, error) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

### upgrade

The `upgrade` hook is called before a WebSocket connection is established. It receives a [`RequestEvent`](@sveltejs-kit#RequestEvent) object that has an additional [`context`](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer#peercontext) property to store abitrary information that is shared with that connection's [`Peer`](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) object.

You can use the [`error`](@sveltejs-kit#error) function imported from `@sveltejs/kit` to easily reject connections. Requests will be auto-accepted if the `upgrade` hook is not defined or does not `error`.

```js
import { error } from "@sveltejs/kit";

/** @type {import('./$types').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	upgrade({ request }) {

> 		if (request.headers.get('origin') !== 'my_allowed_origin') {

Reviewer 4: We'll add a `socket.allowOrigins` option to allow specifying a list of explicit origins or a wildcard character to allow all origins.

> 		if (request.headers.get('origin') !== 'my_allowed_origin') {

Reviewer 2: I can agree with this as a default

			// Reject the WebSocket connection by throwing an error
			error(403, 'Forbidden');
		}
	}
};
```

### open

The `open` hook is called when a WebSocket connection is opened. It receives a [`Peer`](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) object to allow interacting with connected clients.

```js
/** @type {import('./$types').Socket} **/
export const socket = {

> 	open(peer) {

Reviewer 2: I love the experience this destructing provides, and love it today with the existing parts of kit

export const socket = {
	message(peer, message) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

### close

The `close` hook is called when a WebSocket connection is closed. It receives the [`Peer`](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) object to allow interacting with connected clients and the close details object which contains the [WebSocket connection close code](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CloseEvent/code#value) and reason.

```js
/** @type {import('./$types').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	close(peer, details) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

### error

The `error` hook is called when a connection with a WebSocket has been closed due to an error. It receives the [`Peer`](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) object to allow interacting with connected clients and the error.

```js
/** @type {import('./$types').Socket} **/
export const socket = {
	error(peer, error) {
		// ...
	}
};
```

## Accessing `RequestEvent` through `Peer`

The [`Peer`](https://crossws.unjs.io/guide/peer) object has been extended to include the [`RequestEvent`](@sveltejs-kit#RequestEvent) object from the initial upgrade request. It can be accessed through the `peer.event` property.

## `getPeers` and `publish`

> The [`getPeers`]($app-server#getPeers) and [`publish`]($app-server#publish) functions from `$app/server` can be used to interact with your WebSocket connections from anywhere on the server.

Reviewer 6: I don't quite understand these functions — aren't they specific to a socket? `publish` takes a `topic` but it's not clear how I would subscribe to a topic in the first place

Reviewer 6: Ok @eltigerchino has educated me here on how these work. My feeling is that we shouldn't expose `getPeers` and `publish`, because if `getPeers` returns _all_ peers for _all_ `socket` exports, then it becomes a source of bugs. Say I'm using `getPeers` somewhere in my app and then another developers adds another `+server.ts` with a `socket` export. Suddenly I'll start broadcasting to the wrong peers.

Instead I think we should probably encourage people to handle peers manually, if you want to interact with them from outside the socket handlers:

```ts
// src/lib/topics/foo.ts
export const peers = new Set();
```

```ts
// src/routes/foo/+server.ts
import { peers } from '$lib/topics/foo';

export const socket = {
	open({ peer }) {
		peers.add(peer);
    peer.send('hello');
	},

	close({ peer }) {
		peers.delete(peer);
	}
};
```

```ts
// src/routes/elsewhere/+server.ts
import { peers } from '$lib/topics/foo';

export async function POST({ request }) {
	const message = await request.json();

	for (const peer of peers) {
		peer.send(message);
	}
}
```

One question we're not too sure about: will this work with Durable Objects, or is there some magic for saving/restoring that we don't have access to?

Reviewer 7: Durable objects have internal persistent state. As either Sqlite like db or KV. It also has in memory store. In example bellow I think sessions is in memory.

https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-chat-demo/blob/master/src/chat.mjs

Often I want to store state in the DO so new joiners get the current state from the DO the incremental state via WS.

So very helpful if DO can be exposed on platform.env.

Reviewer 7: Helpful if there is a general way to package DOs with Sveltekit through adapter-cloudflare as there are many nice DO things: MCP servers, partykit.

I'd really like to be able to put HelloWorld.durableObject.ts in a route folder and have it added to the worker output by the build.

Reviewer 8: @philholden see #13739
